Bad Movie
April 26, 2012
https://vimeo.com/41118388
__________________________

Trevor: Explain to me what The Room is, as if I've never heard of it before.
Man: The Room is a bad movie that wasn't trying to be a bad movie, but it worked out really well.
Woman: I guess it's about, well, it's just chaos, the whole movie, kind of.
Woman: It's very hard to describe.
Man: The Room is, allegedly, the worst movie ever made.
Trevor: I have to admit, I'm a little, like, worried about what we say when we cross the border.
Why?
Trevor: Film students, making a documentary.
Son, what are you, what are you doing here in, what's, what's your business in the states? It's, like, well, we're making a documentary.
Trevor: Okay.
We're film students.
Trevor: That goofy-looking guy behind the wheel, that's me. And my obsession with bad movies has taken me from Toronto all the way to Milwaukee to meet with some fellow fans. Yes, that's right. I said bad movies. Now, why would someone want to watch something that's terrible? Like, on purpose. Well, that's what I'm here, hoping to find out. We just have to call Jay, and let him know that we are here. Hi, Jay. Hey, this is Trevor. Um, we've, uh, we've been talking through emails for the last two months. Uh, we're here at the studio. Here we go. Hey.
Jay: Hello.
Trevor: Good to meet you, man.
Jay: Nice to meet you.
Trevor: I'm Trevor.
Jay: Trevor.
Trevor: This is Joel. He's the camera for me.
Jay: Hi.
Joel: Nice to meet you.
Trevor: And James will be doing sound.
James: Hello.
Trevor: So this is your collection?
Jay: This is our, yeah, we do, we do bad movie nights here at the studio, since we have the space now, and we have a giant screen, so, we have friends over and drink beer and watch movies, and, yeah, we just keep accumulating more and more. We try and find weird VHS tapes at thrift stores. Uh, like, The Donut All-Stars.
Trevor: What?
Jay: This is a quality one. It's about a child molestor, and a talking asshole.
Mike: Yeah, the concept of the video is that, the, yeah, the hole is, like, it's supposed to be, like, the love of Jesus. And, and, if, if, if, if you're missing it, you have to fill that hole up with something. But it, it looks like a talking asshole. It's, it's just kind of creepy. So, there's four types of bad movies. I think there might be four types of bad movies.
Jay: Oh, really? What are these types?
Mike: Oh, let me share those with you now. There's bad-bad.
Trevor: Okay.
Mike: Which is, which is painfully bad to watch, right? It's so bad, you, you can't barely watch it, and you wanna turn it off. Good-bad, also known as funny-bad, meaning it's, it's a failure at whatever it was trying to do. It's, it was trying to be a drama, and it was, you know, it ends up being horribly funny. There is technically-bad, which is a movie that's, that's, you can also get entertainment value from it from it, for it being so bad. But, there are so many technical problems with it, you actually learn stuff from it, like bad filmmaking techniques, and all that stuff. And then, the final category is someone that makes a bad movie on purpose to be funny-bad.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: And, and it ends up being nothing.
Jay: Well, for me, a lot of it comes from low-budget movies. And, uh, cuz I know, growing up, like, I probably learned more about filmmaking from bad movies, from low-budget b-movies than, you know, Jurassic Park or Batman, or bigger movies like that, cuz it's, like, the seams are showing and, and you've, it almost gets you more involved with the creative process, where you're watching it, and you're just, like, I can see the wire there.
Mike: Mm-hmm.
Jay: Or, you know, the boom's in shot, so that's where the mic is coming from. I probably learned more about filmmaking that way than, than anything else.
Mike: Than film school.
Jay: I definitely learned more from bad movies than film school.
Trevor: But you're pouring yourself some water, like, over there.
Joel: Okay.
Trevor: And then you'll come over...
John: Oh, it's like a, like a feature film. Do you want to put the camera in the fridge?
Trevor: Back in Toronto, I met wish John Semley, who is an editor for an entertainment newspaper published by The Onion.
John: There is a problem in the culture of, like, people, of it being hard to engage with things sincerely, right? I mean, you know, if you were to come out of a movie weeping, and be, like, oh, really, you're so stupid, you're being affected by something, like, you're supposed to be smarter than it. I mean, people call it irony and whatever, but it's more of, like, a calloused cynicism that we all kind of express these days, I feel. So all of this is to say that people like bad movies because you can always outsmart a bad movie, you know, like you're always one step ahead of it, if not, you know, leagues ahead of it. Um, so it's easier to define, like, what the movie is yourself, like, it's not gonna pull any punches for you.
Mike: Hmm...The Room is an electrifying black comedy about love, passion, betrayal, and lies.
Jay: That's what it is, yeah.
Mike: That's true.
Jay: Yeah.
Mike: It's what happens in real life. That's the next sentence.
Trevor: That never happens.
Jay: Seen through the eyes of an alien.
Trevor: Tommy Wiseau is the writer, director, producer, and star of the hit bad movie, The Room. Released in 2003, the film is still screened in theaters on a monthly basis in major cities across the globe. That's a nine-year international theatrical run. So if the The Room is that bad, why would people keep paying to see it?
Woman: I don't remember the plot, but when I describe it to people who haven't seen it, I always highlight how in the first 40 minutes, there's three graphic sex scenes that, uh, yeah...
Woman: They're long, it's long.
Woman: And, and in two of the sex scenes, it, it's the same footage, so it's repeated.
Man: Uh, I was toldthat, uh, Tommy Wiseau, the director, was so eager about making a film, and starring in it, and being a star, that, uh, he even sold leather jackets illegally in Korea in order to...
Man: In order to raise money for the film.
Man: Yeah.
Man: It's like an alien pretending to be a human and going, making, making movies as a way to get his message across. It's baffling. Just baffling.
Jay: So, the first time I saw The Room was at an event called B-fest in Evanston, Illinois. It's 24 hours straight of bad movies, and they had a, they actually had a film print, but it wasn't working for some reason, so they put on the DVD, and for whatever reason, the closed captioning was on, and they didn't bother to turn it off, so the whole movie is subtitled, including the songs. All the, like, for the sex scenes. So all the lyrics are there, so every time a song would come on, everyone in the theater would just turn into a giant sing-along, and it was just, it was the perfect way to see it for the first time.
Trevor: What did he write on yours?
Mike: It's, well...
Trevor: On mine, uh, he wrote, to Trebor, not Trevor. Um, and I, and I corrected him. I saw him write the b, and like, no, it's Trevor, or, I saw him write the b, and he's, like, yeah, I know, and then just kept writing it.
Mike: He was a character.
Jay: He doesn't give a shit.
Trevor: So, it's to Trebor, how is your sex life.
Mike: Oh.
Trevor: In my own daily life, I have what you might call an obsession with The Room. I have the signed DVD on display at all times in my bedroom. My cell phone background and ringtone is The Room themed. And I recently bought a keychain, so I can Tommy with me everywhere I go. But it's not just me who's obsessed with this film. The fans have taken ownership of it, and have created an entire community around the movie. There's countless YouTube tributes and remix videos online. There's an online petition to get Tommy Wiseau a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. Some loyal fans have even created a retro-style vdieo game that let's the player play through the story of The Room from Johnny's perspective. The fans have found creative ways to keep the film alive between screens. For a lot of us, it's become more than just a movie.
Man: People like to go to an environment like this for the, for the crowd, you know, they like to be amongst their own people.
Man: There is something very, uh, very unique about going to a lot of movies like this. There aer a lot of movies that I've seen, um, I would say especially Midnight Madness, where being part of the Midnight Madness crowd actually makes the movie better.
Man: Yeah.
Man: Because you're experiencing it as a group, and then I've, I've gone and shown the same movies to people without that crowd, and they haven't understood why it was so great, and a lot of that has to do with the fact, yes, there's, there's something about all those people waiting together for the movie so long, and they get in there, and it's just, it's, it's a group experience.
Man: You want to like it.
Man: Yeah.
Man: I think what it is about bad films that people come back for, especially, you know, it, it seems, at least seems to me that there, there's a growing popularity in, like, finding really awful movies to laugh at, that don't necessarily know how awful they are, uh, because people want something, you know, they want something really great, and they want, or they want something really bad. They don't want something that's mediocre. And the problem with, like, a lot of the content coming out of Hollywood these days is that it's not bad, it's not good, it's just a movie.
John: I just find it hard to conceive of these days to be, like, to a friend, like, oh, hey, I saw this really beautiful film called Tree of Life, like it really made me consider my place in the universe, and, like, you know, the course of all of human endeavor. You wanna go see it with me? And someone would be, like, no. Like, that's, like, you know, but if you're, like, oh, my god, I saw this thing where, like, a guy fucks a woman in her sternum, and there's fucking rose petals everywhere, and the kid's name is Denny, with a 40-inch forehead. And everyone's laughing at it, and chucking spoons at the screen. Do you wanna go see that? And everyone would be, like, yeah, that sounds amazing, you know, that doesn't sound like what going to the movies is.
Trevor: The thing I love most about bad movies is the people who enjoy them. Over the past year, I've had the opportunity to meet a lot of clever, unique, talented, and funny people who I never would've come into contact with if not for a shared interest in terrible films. But if you really think about it, whether you like them or not, we need bad movies, because you simply can't have good films without the bad ones to compare them to.
