The Projection Booth
Showgirls
January 18, 2016
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erV1_rPUACU
_______________________________________

Mike: I am so ready. I have ice on my nipples. I am good to go.
Heather: Oh, god.
Jay: Did you paint them red?
Mike: Oh, yeah. Gosh.
Heather: This, I hope this goes onto the episode. I think we need the nipple paint as an integrat part of this particular episode here.
Mike: Welcome to The Projection Booth. I am your host, Mike White. Joining me is Ms. Heather Drain.
Heather: Hello.
Mike: Also with us this week is Mr. Jay Bauman.
Jay: And everyone got AIDS and shit.
Mike: I should write a song about that.
Jay: I bet, I bet somebody has.
Mike: This week, we are talking about the 1995 film Showgirls, directed by Paul Verhoeven and written by Joe Eszterhas. The film was a follow-up of sorts, of their 1992 hit film, Basic Instinct. It stars Elizabeth Berkley as Nomi Malone, a volatile young woman from different places, who cames to Las Vegas to dance. There, she meets scads of colorful characters while going from stripper to showgirl in a wild, rags-to-riches tale. Heather, when was the first time you saw Showgirls, and what did you think?
Heather: Well, the first time I saw Showgirls was back sometime in the late 90's when I was in high school, and I'm pretty sure it was one of those things where either my parents were on a date, or I couldn't sleep, so I got up to see what was on cable, uh, and of course, on paid cable was Showgirls. I was, like, ooh, I remember there being so much controversy about it, so I watched it, and I thought it was ultra-compelling and horrible, like, I thought it was, like, a really weird amalgam of, of great things, and terrible things. And that was my initial impression.
Jay: Watching it for this show may be the first time I've ever seen it in its entirety from start to finish, in order. But I know I sat it on cable a lot cuz it, when it first hit cable, it was on all the time. So I saw the whole thing in maybe twenty, thirty minute chunks, just not all at once, and I just remember after all the, uh, the controversy and the marketing of the movie was, oh, it's this naughty thing, we can't show you anything in, in the trailer, and all this stuff, but I just remember being kind of bored by the, what was supposed to be the sexy stuff, and then bored what I saw as just sort of a lame attempt at satire, which was not something people really seemed to be talk about at the time. People just thought of it as just this horrible movie, this failure. But I was, like, well this is clearly, I mean, it's Paul Verhoeven, it's clearly going for something sort of satirical, but it just kind of fails at that, too.
Mike: I saw this one in the theater when it came out, cuz there's no way in hell I was gonna miss this landmark film that just people were going crazy about. I had seen Basic Instinct in the theater, probably four or five times, because I was writing a paper about it in college. At least, let's pretend that's why I saw it so many times. And, yeah, I was a huge fan of RoboCop. This was pre-Starship Troopers, so I kinda knew about that satire that you're talking about, and of course, Total Recall, big fan of that one, too. So I knew about that satire, but I just couldn't really see it that well the first time through, and while putting together this episode, I read, uh, you know, the Showgirls Doesn't Suck book, uh, listened to the audio commentary, just really tried to immerse myself in this thing, but I held off on rewatching the film until last night, just to see if I could get that real clear take on it, and see that satire for what it was, and kind of have that moment when I realized, you know, Starship Troopers is so brilliant, I'm sure that there's something in Showgirls that I missed back in 1995...I just didn't see it this time, either. So, I dunno. There's moments, there are moments, and there are just some hilarious things, and I love how campy it is, but man, this movie's just, it, it, yeah, it's, it's weird. It's a strange, strange movie. It's gotta strange tone to it.
Jay: Which tone?
Mike: It's as schizophrenic as Nomi Malone.
Jay: Yes. It feels like you're watching, cuz everyone else acts, they do their best, like, everyone's fine in the movie, but then at the center of it, you have Elizabeth Berkeley, and you're just, like, what is she even going for?
Mike: It also taught me a whole lot as far as, like, the hierarchy of Las Vegas. I really didn't know, like, the whole behind the scenes thing of prostitutes apparently are at the bottom, and then stripping above that, and then showgirl is, like, the pinnacle of, you know, high society it seems like in Las Vegas.
Jay: I'm assuming the movie is a very accurate reflection of the way that all works.
Mike: Well, it felt very cinema veritae at quite a few points.
Heather: But, some have referred to it as a docu-drama, that these people may have been snorting the same batch of cocaine that Joe Eszterhas was undoubtedly snorting when he wrote this script.
Mike: Everybody's got AIDS and shit, and everyobody's got some cocaine going on in this movie. And it just reminded me of, like, a 1980's film that kind of escaped into the 1990's.
Jay: I attribute that to Joe Eszterhas. Like, he feels very 1980's. Like, probably even now, I don't even know, he kind of stopped writing, right, after this movie?
Mike: He was the flavor for so long, too. And I remember, like, you were talking about the controversy around this film, and I remember when, what was it, Eszterhas sold, like, a two-page treatment for $10 million or some shit like that. It was, like, insane the amount of money his scripts were getting, even the ones that never got produced.
Heather: Yeah, it's pretty depressing, cuz, I mean, you think about guys like Kowalski, who've, you know, had to wait, like, twenty, thirty years to make a film. Meanwhile, Eszterhas farts out something on a napkin, and then he gets all this millions of dollars for just terr-, really, hackneyed, I mean, the plot of this film is, like, it's completely, it's hackneyed, it's, like, all about these girls with gold boobs, which I know we'll get to later in the show, but, um, it, it's just bizarre. I mean, it's, it's like reading, it's like reading somebody's coke jag while they're watching these different old movies.
Mike: And when you look at his, his filmography, I mean, he really scored big with something like Flashdance, which there's a lot of elements of Flashdance in this, at least as far as what I see. And then things like Jagged Edge, and then a whole bunch of shit that I never saw, and really didn't hear about, but I remember Jagged Edge, and it just wasn't that great of a thing. But I guess that whole idea of, like, these sexy thrillers were so big in the eighties, I mean, starting with kind of, like, Fatal Attraction that you could just kind of slap together one of these things and become a millionaire.
Jay: Well, I do think Joe Eszterhas was the perfect person to write this movie, because if anyone listening to this, uh, googles Joe Eszterhas, look at images of him, and he, he's very clearly a man that understands women, and the way women interact. All they do, all they do is, is talk about their bodies and food.
Mike: A lot of talk about dicks in this movie, and a lot of talk about doing people's nails.
Jay: Yes.
Heather: You guys are getting a very privileged peek at the, uh, private sisterhood of women. So, thank you, Joe Eszterhas for revealing all of our secrets.
Mike: I'm surprised they just didn't strip down to their underwear and have a pillowfight.
Heather: Well, you know, there is a pillowfight in the sequel, but I don't wanna reveal too much until we get...
Jay: Oh, no. Am I the only one that hasn't seen the sequel?
Mike: Uh-oh.
Heather: Ohh...very naughty.
Jay: I haven't watched it yet.
Mike: Have you guys ever been to a Las Vegas review and seen Showgirls, like, in the wild, as it were?
Heather: I have not, sadly. I, I have yet to, uh, visit Las Vegas.
Jay: Yeah, me neither. All my knowledge of showgirls and Las Vegas comes from the movie Showgirls.
Mike: Maybe things were different back in 1995, but when I went to Vegas in, say, like, 1999, which I know was so far removed from 1995, at least my experience of a showgirl show at a casino was basically, if you do anything, they're gonna comp you tickets for the showgirls show. And it's a lot of, like, bad comedians, and women in these, like, kind of skimpy things, or you can go to, like, the, one of the more upscale ones. I'm trying to remember what it was called, like, the, The Crazy Horse Review at the MGM, and stuff, and that's just a lot of women who are kind of dancing, almost like Rockettes kinda thing. And it's really strange, too, because, like, none of 'em have any breasts to speak of. So, like, as they're, like, dancing and stuff, there's barely any jiggle going on, and it's just, like, this is really kinda strange here. It, it, it's not nearly the theatrics and the, uh, press conference-worthy kind of stuff. I don't remember turning on the 6 o'clock news in Las Vegas and seeing any reports about the latest, you know, review over at the, the Stardust, or anything. That's, that's all I'm trying to say.
Heather: I don't, well, that's one of the many surreal elements of the movie, cuz, you know, when they have the whole press conference with Cristal Connors, and, you know, it's like, I'm like, that seems a bit weird for a showgirl to get that kind of, you know, you never hear about that out-, certainly outside of Vegas. But then on top of that, when she ends up having her injury, uh, they're all talking about who to replace her, and one guy's, like, what about Paula Abdul, and that's, like, you really think Paula Abdul is gonna, like, you know, start shaking her ta-ta's, and do this, like, horrible-looking show called Goddess. I mean, in, in a perfect world, perhaps, but I mean, it's, this, this, the universe of Showgirls is not fleshed into any sort of reality.
Mike: I was really reminded of Staying Alive when I was watching any of the Showgirls-type stuff. 
Jay: Oh, god.
Mike: And I, I kept waiting for Travolta to come out there with the headband and stuff and just slide across on his knees, you know, across the stage, but, yeah, he never showed up to rescue me. Instead, I just got Cristal Connors, played by Gina Gershon, and just, all of these people in the same wigs and outfits, and just doing these really elaborate moves with these crazy kind of, and, and I know everything's amped up for the movie and everything, but even if you took it down quite a few notches, the pyrotechnics and all this kind of stuff are not necessarily what I remember, but then again, I didn't go to the Stardust, I'm just talking purely Flamingo Riveria-style, so, yeah, the, maybe the Stardust, maybe that's what put 'em out of business in 2006.
Heather: The pageantry, it was just too much pageantry.
Mike: We're spending way too much money on this show!
