Star Wars: The Phantom Menace Review (Part 1 of 7)
April 9, 2012
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FxKtZmQgxrI
__________________________________________________

Star Wars “The Phantom Menace” was the most disappointing thing since my son.
I mean, how much more could you possibly fuck up the entire backstory to Star Wars?!
And while my son eventually hanged himself in the bathroom of a gas station, the unfortunate reality of the Star Wars prequels is that they’ll be around.
Forever.
They will never go away.
They can never be undone.
If someone who’s under the age of like 20 says his least favourite film in the series is “The Empire Strikes Back” because it was “the most boringest one”, then I suggest you shut this review off right now before I carefully explain how much of a fucking idiot you are.
So where do I possibly start?
Nothing in “The Phantom Menace” makes any sense at all. It comes off like a script written by an 8 year old.
It’s like George Lucas finished the script in one draft, like turned it in, and they decided to go with it without anyone saying that it made no sense at all, or was a stupid, incoherent mess.
I guess at this point who’s gonna question George, or tell him what to do?
He controls every aspect of the movie. He probably got rid of those people that questioned him creatively a long time ago.
I also think that everyone just assumed that a Star Wars prequel would be an instant hit, regardless of what the plot was.
Really… how hard could it be to screw up?
It’s like screwing up mashed potatoes.
You boil the water, you pour in the packet.
Number one: The characters.
The biggest and most glaring problem with the Phantom Menace is the characters.
This is like the most obvious part of movie making, but I guess I gotta explain it when talking about this turd.
So let’s start at Movie Making 101 shall we?
You see, in most movies the audience needs a character to connect with.
Typically this character is something called a "Pro-ta-gawnist”.
When you’re in a weird movie with like Aliens, and monsters, and weirdos, the audience really needs someone who’s like a normal person like them to guide them through the story.
Now this of course doesn’t apply to every movie, but it works best in the sci-fi, superhero, action, and fantasy genres.
I picked a few examples to illustrate this point: Marty McFly, John McClane, Billy Peltzer, Sarah Connor, Neo, Charlie Bucket, Peter Parker, Cliff Secord, Johnny Rico, Rocky Balboa, and Kevin Bacon.
So in addition to being like an everyday kinda schlub, usually the pro… prutugunist is someone that’s down on their luck, in a bad place in their lives, or someone who everything just doesn’t always go perfectly for them.
Eventually they’ll be confronted with some kind of obstacle or struggle that they gotta deal with.
If we like them, we hope they succeed (Neo’s suicidal 1v1 against Agent Smith). The drama in the film is the result of us rooting for them against opposition.
Eventually our prumurmrurm will find themselves in the lowest point where it seems like all is lost, but eventually they’ll pull through and conquer whatever force opposes them.
It’s satisfying when our hero gets ahead from where they started off at.
They make like a change.
This is called an “Arc”.
Often too, they’ll get the girl in the end as icing on the cake. (John and Holly McClane, Spiderman and M.J., Valentine Mckee and Rhonda LeBeck, Charlie Bucket and Mr. Wonka)
Now I need to explain that I don’t think that all movies should be the same, or conform to the same kind of structure, but it works well in certain kinda movies. So unless you’re the Coen Brothers, David Lynch, Paul Thomas Anderson, Stanley Kubrick, Alfred Hitchcock, Lars Von Trier, David Cronenberg, Gus Van Sant, Quentin Tarantino, John Waters, Wes Anderson, Sam Peckinpah, Terry Gilliam, Martin Scorsese, Werner Herzog, or Jim Jarmusch, you really shouldn’t stray away too far from this kind of formula.
Especially if you’re making a movie that’s aimed at children, and has a cartoon rabbit in it that steps in the poopy. This is all of course completely applicable to the original Star Wars film, and the character of Luke Skywalker.
This was accomplished even without all the wonders of modern CGI.
Now with all you’ve just learned, in this video that I have made for educational purposes, I want you to tell me who the main character of “The Phantom Menace” was.
I can tell you it’s not the Jedi. They were just on some kind of boring mission that they didn’t really care about. Plus they were fucking boring themselves
It wasn’t Queen Amidala, cuz she was some foreign Queen who the movie was certainly not really about specifically either.
You might be thinking that it’s Anakin, cuz he was like a slave and saved the day at the end by accidentally blowing up the starship, but the audience doesn’t meet Anakin until 45 minutes into the movie. And then the things that are happening around him are pretty much out of his control or understanding.
If a protagonist has no concept of what’s goin on or what’s at stake, then there’s no real tension or drama… without that there’s no story. So the conclusion is that there isn’t one.
Before the movie opened I was really excited to hear that Scottish actor “Ewan McDonald” was going to be playing Obi-Wan Kenobi. I thought that was a great choice, and he’d be perfect as the lead of this movie. But he wasn’t really… He just sat on the ship and complained a lot.
So YOU may like the characters, y’know, if you’re stupid.
So let’s ask some REAL people about the Star Wars characters, and see what THEY say. I posed this simple challenge to them:
Describe the following Star Wars character WITHOUT saying what they look like, what kind of costume they wore, or what their profession or role in the movie was.
Describe this character to your friends like they ain’t never seen Star Wars.
The more descriptive they could get, the stronger the character, right?
Han Solo.
Rich: He is a rogue. He is…
Jay: He is very arrogant, uh… but charming.
Jack: Roguish if you will.
Jillian: Han Solo is… totally dashing.
Jack: Wannabe dashing. He-he fancies himself a playboy.
Jesse: So like, he’s a-a smarmy, cocksure, uh… umm… womanizer?
Rich: Scoundrel.
Jack: Um, he is, uh, he is pigheaded.
Jillian: Completely sexy… eh in like a Bad Boy sorta way where, like, he’s gonna ride the line.
Rich: He’s got a bit of a-a-a dark streak to him with uhm… y’know shooting Greedo in the bar.
Jack: But also, deep down uh, has a heart of ah-thief with a heart of gold. That’s his character, really.
Qui-Gon Jinn.
Rich: He is...stoic?
Jillian: “I don’t remember that character.” (He’s Liam Neeson… with the beard) “Ooohhh… yes.”
Jay: Well he has a beard.
Jack: Qui-Gon Jinn. And-uh-he was…
Jesse: Ha hahahahahaha clap Ummm! Let’s see here. Ummm… Stern???
C-3PO.
Jack: “His character is the uh… is kind of the bumbling sidekick.”
Rich: “A-fraid. A scaredy cat. He’s timid.”
Jillian: “C-3PO is… anal retentive.”
Rich: “He’s prissy.”
Jay: “Um, well, C-3PO is-is prissy. He’s uh-uh used a lot as comic relief.”
Jack: “He is the comic relief.”
Jillian: “High strung.”
Jack: “He’s bumbling, uh effeminate.”
Queen Amidalan:
Rich: “That is going to be fucking impossible because she doesn’t HAVE a character.”
Jack: “She-he… is um… he-he-he. She’s Natalie Portman.”
Jillian: “Uh, ya, like uh, like just kind of…”
Rich: “Uumm, well I can’t say she’s a Queen. I was gonna say she’s a Queen.”
Jillian: “Normal. I guess. Just kinda normal.”
Rich: “Make-up would be a description. I was gonna describe the make-up.”
Jay: “Eh. Describe Queen Amidala’s character. Um… monotone?”
Jack: “She is the…”
Jay: “She looks a lot like Keira Knightley.”
Jesse: “U-he-he-he, he-he-he-he, he-he… I can’t answer that and you know it!”
Jillian: “… So…”
Jack: “Uh, she is-s-s-s… This is funny by the way. I get it.”
Number two: the story.
The second biggest problem with “The Phantom Menace” is the whole story and the way it was told. It’s almost mind boggling how complex the awfulness is. From the very start of this movie I could tell something was really wrong. Just by the way it started.
It opens with some boring pilot asking for permission to land on a ship that looks like a half-eaten doughnut with the doughnut hole in the middle… What the fuck is that?! Then two cloaked figures walk into a room in a completely flat angle. They sit down in a conference room, drink tea, and wait to talk about a trade dispute with something that looks like my ex-wife.
While they eventually do get to the ball-numbing, mindless action that the fan boys crave, (Fan boys jizzing themselves going to the theatre) I found myself utterly bored already.
Compare this fecal matter to the opening of the original Star Wars. (Rebels desperately trying to outrun a Star Destroyer)
You see, a guy named William Shakesman once said “Brevity is the soul of wit”. This just means don’t waste my time. You keep it nice and simple. (George examining a Dexter Jettster model) I said stop wasting my time… STOP IT!
Without saying one word of awkward, boring, political dialogue that goes on for ten minutes, we know everything we need to know just by the visuals. Rebels (Arrow pointing at the small ship)… Empire (Arrow pointing at the Star Destroyer). We get a sense of how small and ill-equipped the rebels are, and how large and powerful the Empire is.
The low angle implies dominance, and the length of the Star Destroyer implies the long reach of the Empire. This shot says everything we need to know without saying ONE WORD! In fact, this is so genius, I have a feeling that George Lucas had nothing to do with it, and probably fought against putting it in the movie.
So this comparison of openings is a small example of the overall styles of both films.
The original trilogy was a modern day homage to the classic adventure serials of the past. The kind I used to watch when I was in my 40’s. Good vs. Evil, the classic hero on a journey, the adventurous rogue, a damsel in distress, the wise old sage, gay robots, and an epic quest of discovery.
The new movies are about shoving as much crap into each shot as possible.
This is part of the reason why I find the Special Edition so fucking offensive. Cuz you’re into what’s happening in the movie, and they keep shoving more shit on the screen to distract you. It reminds me of a child waving his arms in the background for attention. Doesn’t Lucas realize that cluttering the frame up with shit is NOT what makes Star Wars good?
Fuck you Rick Berman! You ruined this, too? Stop ruining w- wait a minute… that ain’t Rick Berman. What is it with Rick’s?!?!
So the film is called “The Phantom Menace”, and by the nature of the story there is no clear villain. Hey idiot! You’re not making “The Usual Suspects” here. You’re making a movie for children right?
How ‘bout a bad guy in the movie who’s motivation is clear?
The prequels should be very similar in style to the originals, cuz I don’t like things that are different.
Number three: death and space taxes.
So when you find yourself thinking things like “Huh?” or “What?” when you’re watching how illogical characters act in a movie, it’s not really a good sign.
Now I’ve analyzed this film with a team of cheerleaders, and they came up with one unanymous conclusion. That if I let them go, they promise they won’t tell nobody.
Anyways, so at the end of the movie Yoda makes Obi-Wan a Jedi Knight.
Even though in the opening titles it says he’s a Jedi Knight. So we’ll just call em Jedi Knights too. People call me a murderer even though I ain’t never been caught yet.
So the Jedi’s are there to do WHAT exactly? According to the opening title crawl it was to settle a dispute over the taxation of trade routes… ooohhh. So what makes the Jedi Knights experts in Intergalactic Trade Laws?
So the Trade Federation have set up a blockade around Naboo in order to stop them from getting space supplies, which instantly causes some kind of crisis that we never see……………… OK…. I don’t get it. Why would an organization called The Trade Federation wanna blockade trade?
Usually a blockade is to stop something you DON’T want to get in. You see we once set up a naval blockade around Cuba to stop the Russians from setting up missile launchers there. It was a little event you might a heard of. It wasn’t a big deal, y’know, but you might’ve heard of it. It was called WORLD WAR 1! Geez, you stupid people gotta learn your history right.
So if the Trade Federation were like merchants moving goods and services around the Galaxy, then why did they seem more like a military with armies of robots? However, if they were like a bureaucracy that was in charge of overseeing and regulating trade routes, you’d think they’d be happy about the whole new space taxes. Unless all the taxes went straight to like Space Obama, and they didn’t see any of it?
The point is I’m still not sure what the doughnut ships were there to do. And don’t any of you f*****s tell me that it was explained more in the novelization of some Star Wars book. What matters is the movie. I ain’t never read one of them Star Wars books, or any books in general for that matter, and I ain’t about to start. Don’t talk about them stupid video games, or, or novels… comic books or any of that fucking crap. I see enough of that shit.
I got Phantom Menace toys scattered all over in my basement. You see my grandkids play with them down there when they come over to visit, and they leave that shit all over the place. Lemme see if I can find some of them so I can show you. I’m gonna go down in my basement now. Hold on… I gotta switch the cameras.
Okay, here we are in my basement. So my grandkids, they come over and they play and they leave their stupid Star Wars shit around. The Qui-Gon sucker. They didn’t even eat the sucker! What’s this shit… Anakin summin… What else did they leave around muh basement? (Skull and bones)
What’s this? What is this? Some kinda Darth Maul toy? These kids… always leavin’ this crap around. (Pan to a hostage) Wen-What’s this?!?! They left shit in my bin?!?! My plastic bin! What is this? A little Darth Maul? Stupid Darth Maul. What do they got here? They didn’t even OPEN this! Nuboo… Naboo uccessury set.
Nadine: Mister? Mister.
Quiet.
Nadine: Please let me go! I promise I won’t say anything! I’ll do anything, just let me go!
Quiet! I’m makin’ my Youtube Star Wars review!
Nadine: Star Wars?!?! Don’t hurt me! Mister please just let me-.
I SAID QUIET! I’M MAKIN’ MY REVIEW SO JUST SHUT YOUR FUCKIN’ MOUT-
Anyways… So I realize that Senator Palpatine was using the Trade Federation to create a crisis to advance himself politically. Like that was the plot, I think? But the conflict from the blockade and the subsequent invasion is the ENTIRE MOVIE!
Understanding what role the Trade Federation played in this is important. Y’know what the blockade was about, who was getting taxed, what kinda supplies were so crucial to the Naboo? What was it, like medical supplies? Was there some kinda plague? Did they not have the capacity to survive on such a lush planet with a huge power reactor for ONE day without space trade? You see I would have accepted the idea of some kinda mystery villain if the basics were at least clear.
So when two guys wearing robes come on board their ship, Rosie the Robot just assumes they are Jedi Knights and tells the Chaternarians.
Even though almost every single character wears robes in Star Wars. Then somehow this robot knows or thinks they are Jedi Knights. Hey idiots, so much for the disguise! Even a protocol droid could sniff you out. Maybe it’s not a disguise, but whatever.
So the Chaternarians immediately inform this mystery guy that they’re running this scam with – a guy who looks like Satan – that Jedi’s are on the ship, and of course - so that we can have an action scene – he tells them to kill the Jedi.
You see they never once went into the room to say “hello” to the Jedi, and that they’ll be right with them, but they tell Palpatine that they are Jedi’s. And then they try to gas them to death based solely on the hunch of a droid.
Who’s fucking with my medicine?!?!?
Who wants pizza roll? E-mail me if you want a pizza roll. Post a comment on this web zone if you want a pizza roll. (Puts a bunch of pizza rolls in an enevelope) Gotta send ‘em in the mail. Who’s fuckin’ with my medicine?
Now this is where it gets complex my lovelies. So I think this is what happened, I’m not sure, but Palpatine wanted to create a crisis on Naboo so that the naïve young Queen would propose a vote of “No Confidence” for Chancellor Valorum. This would lead to Palpatine getting elected in his place right? Like, I mean that’s the plot?... I think?
So how does killing the Jedi or creating a communications blackout on the planet even get word back to the senate that there is a CRISIS? At the end of the movie, Amidalan goes back to the planet to solve the problem herself, cuz the Senate wanted to send an independent team to investigate whether or not the invasion was real.
I guess the testimony of two Jedi Knights wasn’t good enough. Those were the guys that Valorum trusted enough to settle the whole dispute in the first place… That don’t make sense.
So anyways when, when the guys told Palpatine that, that Jedi’s were there he should’ve said this. “Tell the Jedi that there will be no negotiations. Tell them that you plan to invade the planet next, and then send them back to Coruscant to inform the Senate.”
Instead he tells them to do the exact opposite of what will help his plan. Like, he wanted her to sign the treaty right?
He seemed really intent on having her sign the treaty to make the invasion legal. So what if she was like a total coward and then actually SIGNED the treaty? Like right away? Then the crisis would be over and there’d be no need for a vote of no confidence. See what I mean, this sounding like an 8 year old wrote it?
So anyways, it’s time to kill off the Jedi. Oh good… How do they go about it?
Well, they start pumping in an obvious deadly white gas into the room. This alerts them to danger. Well actually blowing up their ship does? I guess they should have pumped in the gas first, then after the Jedi’s were dead, THEN blow the ship up? Anyways, back to the gas.
Hey idiots! Have you ever heard of Carbon Monoxide? It’s odourless and colourless. Your wife won’t even know what hit her. Oh… I mean Jedi. Also, moments earlier, the Jedi willingly drink tea that was given to them WHILE they discussed how everything felt really fishy.
Hey, you guys got any rat poison lyin around? PUT IT IN THE TEA! PUT IT IN THE TEA! THEY’LL DRINK IT! PUT THE RAT POISON IN THE T-
So anyways, then the Dioxicin starts filling up the room and…
Hey wait. How does Qui-Gon know what kind of gas it is BEFORE he smells it? Isn’t that like a contradiction? If you smell the deadly white gas, I guess it’s a little too late. Maybe he just got a little sniff of it.
Anyways, y’know this idea COULD work, because we see that the Jedi hold their breath. Which implies there’s some kind of danger of them running OUT of breath, right? Maybe they can hold their breath for like two hours cuz their Jedi’s? Well no that’s not true, cuz later in the film we see they need to use them breathing things underwater for that short swim to the Gunga sea world.
So anyways, it’s like the Jedi know that the droids are gonna open up the door in a very short time before they run out of breath, because they don’t immediately start trying to cut their way out. Which is what I’D be doing. I’d probably be screaming too, like a little girl. So what are they DOING in there?!
Then the dumbest line in the movie is said.
What does that mean?... Hey asshole!!! How ‘bout you leave the door closed for like 4 hours, and then if they try to cut through the door, start shooting them in the face. Then pump in more gas, and keep pumping it in.
Obviously you’ve never suffocated a hooker that was trying to escape from your crawl space before. I’d recommend spraying RAID in there. You need to go with the fast kill, low irritant kind. It’s in the blue bottle. It works the best. You’ll need about 6 cans though.
What was I talking about?.... Oh, right. So they open the doors anyways and they let the Jedi out, and attack them with completely useless robots. Just tell ‘em to leave and that you don’t wanna negotiate, and then when their ship flies out of your space dock, SHOOT IT WITH LASERS!
Also we need to consider the fact that killing two Jedi that were sent there as peaceful ambassadors would be a pretty heinous crime in the eyes of the Galactic Senate. An organization that runs everything, including space taxes. I mean you could just claim that they never got there.
But now you’ve got the burned wreckage of their ship inside your horribly burned docking bay.
Number four: Who’s doing what? Where? Why?
Why are the Shatnerians taking orders from this mystery hologram again?
What did he promise them that would be so worth risking their entire organization for?
The location of the fountain of youth? A planet made of gold? Corrective surgery for this woman’s face?
How about a night in Megan’s Fox hole?
Seriously, what was it?
Oh we’re never told, are we?
Generally speaking it’s easy to get a handful of insane people to follow you on some kind of illegal or crazy scheme, but when you’re talking about a huge organization that’s run with military efficiency, then their probably gonna want something in return for the use of 30 of their ships and risking everything.
Darth Sidious can’t really promise them future political favours because it would give away who he is.
When they get arrested at the end they could just say, “It was like a hologram in a cloak. He made us do it! In fact he looks like… Palpatine. And he sounds like him too! We got the recordings of the hologram, you wanna look at em?”
I find it hard to believe that these guys never started pointing fingers after they got caught.
Number 5: I can’t put enough quotation marks around the word “Story” so I won’t try
How do you know that? I said how do you KNOW that?! Answer me Thing-in-the-Mouth-Face!!! What is that anyways? What, did ya smoke too much? What’s wrong with your faaace?
Anyways, Obi-Wan and Qui-Gon, they end up in the hangar bay somehow where the droid armies are being staged for an invasion. Why don’t the Jedi’s just start fighting all of them? Then steal a ship and head back to Coruscant to tell the Galactic Senate what’s goin on? It’s not so crazy, because later in the film they attempt to run the blockade with ONE ship and they make it through. The fact that they even TRIED that makes this a possible option.
What is wrong with your faaace?!?!
But instead Qui-Gon in all his wisdom thinks it’s a better idea to go down with the army to quote “Warn the Naboo”.
Hey genius! If you’re going down WITH the army, don’t you think it’s a little too late to warn them ABOUT the army?
And what the fuck are the Naboo gonna do anyways?! They don’t even HAVE a real army, just volunteers.
So the droid army just rolls in, unchallenged, as expucted. Just like the Nazi’s into France in a little historical event you might’ve heard of? Mmm what was it called, uhm THE FRENCH REVOLUTION.
Anyways, so then for no reason they decide to stow away on different ships.
Is this guy a fucking retard?! Maybe that’s why they call him Qui-Gon Jin… cuz he’s always drinkin gin. This is a minor point, but what would going down on the planet on separate ships accomplish? Let’s think about this.
Number one: increase the chances of getting caught by 100%.
Two: Have no one else to help you if you get caught and get into a fight with robots.
Three: Increase the possibility of getting separated by hundreds, if not thousands of miles by not knowing where the other craft is going to land on the planet.
But thankfully they both aren’t discovered, and they meet up in the same spot in the woods.
Then although the REASON for them going down to the planet was to warn the Naboo about the army, they decide to follow a cartoon rabbit underwater… Why?! Why not just keep moving towards the Naboo city?
Hey Jinnie!!
I thought you went down there to warn the Naboo.
How is this gonna accomplish that?
What was your plan from the beginning when you got down there?
Did you PLAN to find a magical underwater craft that would… go through the planet’s core, or did you just plan to run along the surface?
What’s wrong with your faaace?!?!
This is the first point they shoulda ditched Jar-Jar.
This is also the point when the movie starts to officially fall apart.
This is the moment when the Star Wars saga is now damaged totally beyond repair.
The lapses in common sense and logic begin to compound on the movie and now it is broken.
I could end this review here, but I’m really just getting started.
I do have to go to traffic court soon though.
I accidentally ran over a Korean family with my car…
What is wrong with your faaace?!?!
Number 6: Invasion! Of boring…
So the Naboo seem to be on the case about this thing.
The old guy seems to know what’s goin on. And although they’re a peaceful people with no army, this asshole seems to be an expert in the process of planetary invasions.
So what exactly is the purpose of this invasion?
It’s almost like after Lucas wrote the invasion scenes he didn’t really know what to do next.
So he thought he’d make the Queen have to sign a treaty to make the invasion legal. I mean, why not?
First of all forcing someone to sign a treaty sorta contradicts the purpose of a signature on a treaty.
You might as well just forge it if you’re gonna MAKE her sign it.
So meanwhile Qui-Gon booze and Obi-Wan are in the underwater city.
Qui-Gon is still talking about warning the Naboo that they are about to be attacked, when he really doesn’t know they are actually going to attack them.
Then since Qui-Gon is jumping to conclusions and making shit up, Obi-Wan starts doing it too!
First of all, the only thing that the Jedi’s know at this point is that they were sent to settle a trivial dispute about taxing trade routes.
All of a sudden Obi-Wan thinks he knows the entire plan of the Trade Federation.
How does he know they plan to take control of the surface, AND the underwater city too?
Maybe they just wanna steal some kind of priceless artifact from the Naboo.
Maybe the Naboo did some kind of horrific act against the Trade Federation and they’re just getting some revenge?
And what does that even mean?!?!
How is a totally isolated city underwater affected at ALL by the Naboo being attacked by droids on the complete other side of the planet?
YES, I said the other side of the planet because, (Boss Nass) “The speediest way to de Naboo tis going through the planet core…”
By planet core I assume he means PLANET CORE.
Like, the centre? Usually that’s what a core is.
So they spend 2 hours flying deeper and deeper into the planet underwater.
I guess to emerge on the other side of the planet?
I guess?
This begs the question, why did the droid armies land on the other side of the planet where the Gunga city is?
If they expected no opposition, why land in the middle of forests and spend time chopping through the woods so far away from your target?
Why not just land right outside the city?
Or IN the city?
Anyways so like idiots they surface the bongo right in the middle of an occupied city in broad daylight, and then Jinnie just looks around without any attempt at subterfuge.
Inside the city, Queen Aminalan has been captured by the green guys, but instead of forcing her to sign the treaty right then and there, or keeping her locked up inside the big capital building under heavy guard, they inexplicably send her away from them.
Remember, this is the most important person in their whole plan, and they send her to be processed?...
In some place called Camp 4.
Oohh, but at least they remembered to send her with a whopping 8 battle droids to protect her from the 2 Jedi’s that they JUST discussed they had not found yet.
But don’t worry.
These battle droids have proven very effective against Jedi Knights……
Ooooohhhhh.
Wait, nooooo….
Y’know it really adds a lot of tension in the movie when the main enemy forces are totally ineffective.
Oh it shouldn’t be a problem, wooo now I’m really on the edge of my seat!
Fuck you!
Number seven: Escape! From the planet of boring.
Ok so they free the Naboo air force and then they get on a silver jet thing, and they run through a blockade.
Which again I remind you, the point of a blockade is to STOP ships from getting through.
So Qui-Gon Jin could have very easily gotten everyone killed.
Does anyone smell gin?
Hey!
It’s 11:30 in the morning.
Who’s been drinking?
So no one’s really that nervous about running this blockade until the shield generator gets hit.
Shabams, Blammo, Shabams!
Ooo, then SUDDENLY it’s dangerous.
Hey wait.
Just like knowing what kind of deadly gas it is before you smell it, how does the shield generator get hit while the shields are up?
Shouldn’t the- Aah fuck it.
Wait, slow down asshole.
Everything everyone says in this movie makes no sense so I have to keep up here OK, stop.
Wait a minute!
Hold on!
OK wait, how will you be sitting ducks without a shield generator?
Are you implying that WITH the shield generator you WOULDN’T be sitting ducks?
That you would be able to breeze through this blockade somehow?
Doesn’t that defeat the purpose of a blockade if any ship with an operational shield generator would suddenly not be a sitting duck and could go through the blockade?
I would think with Trade Federation ships of that size and quantity, you’d get blown to fucking pieces with or without shields if they all fired on you.
So anyways R2-D2 sticks a thing in a thing and fixes the shield generator.
Then the dude says, (Pilot) “Deflector shields up at maximum!”
OK, so then that suddenly relieves all the tension in the scene, and allows them to escape the blockade.
If you’ll notice though after the shields are back up at maximum, they don’t get hit again.
So really R2 fixing the shield generator did nothing at all.
M-maybe it gave them the confidence to escape?
So then after they show no emotion at all about the droids being picked off one by one, they inexplicably send R2 up to the queen to get a pat on the head I guess.
She thanks the little piece of equipment like it’s a person.
Hey, nobody thanked the SHIP… I think that did a lot more to help them escape.
You see normal people don’t think of droids as people.
Even the kind hearted Luke Skywalker reacts with sarcasm when introducing himself to R2-D2.
Would a queen really thank a droid?
I don’t know….
Maybe.
Again this is a film for babies.
Wait I gotta get this straight here. Hold on. So at this point the queen in the middle that’s wearing black is the decoy, but the real queen is Padme who’s in the orange. Right? 
OK.
So the handmaiden decoy then ORDERS THE QUEEN to go clean the droid? Did Amidalan ASK to be sent off on a menial task prior to this so she could have a scene where she meets Jar-Jar Binks?
You’d think the real queen would wanna hang out in the throne room area to stay current on any updates about what’s goin on?
And why did they even bring a dirty droid out to the queen?
Did they really think that a member of royalty was gonna care that a droid fixed something and then personally thank it?
